RAPID: Utilizing hyperdiverse grapevine collections to study the co-variation of phenology and other plant functional traits It is well documented that phenology, or the timing of reoccurring life history events such as flowering, responds to climatic shifts with downstream effects on community assembly and function. Despite its recognized biological importance, the proximate constraints and controls on phenology are less well understood, due to a lack of understanding how phenology integrates with other important plant functional traits. There is some evidence that important functional attributes such as plant growth rates and strategies co-vary with the timing of flowering and budburst, but a more mechanistic understanding of drivers of phenological variation requires the integration of phenology into studies of plant function. This research proposes to utilize the world’s largest collection of grapevine accessions to study the correlation of phenology and other important plant functional traits in winegrapes. 'Domaine de Vassal’ is a French agricultural research station, located in the coastal town of Marseillan, that has been a globally important resource of grapevine diversity for well over a century. It houses 7,500 accessions of grape vines from 47 countries representing greater than 2,400 different grape varieties including wild species, mutants and cultivars. The winegrapes (Vitis vinifera subsp vinifera) represented in this collection alone exhibit two months of diversity in flowering time, as well variation in other traits such as leaf morphology, vein density, water use and heat responses. A relevant feature of the research site is the beach sand soils which render resistance to phylloxera and thus negate the need to graft onto non-native rootstock. This presents a unique opportunity to study phenological and plant trait variation independent of rootstock-scion interactions. Further, robust phenological data at multiple stages (i.e., budburst, flowering, and veraison) has already been collected and recorded for the vast majority of the collection. Yet, the entire collection is in the beginning stages of being moved inland to a site where all plants will have to be grafted onto new rootstock, a process that will take several years, making the use of this invaluable collection time-sensitive.  We propose to collect a suite of plant functional traits related to growth strategies, water and nutrient use across phenological stages from a diverse set of wine grapes that span the entire range of phenological diversity present in the collection. // Insert something here about modeling phenology and incorporate other physiological and functional traits into the model // Further, we plan to utilize clippings from this collection in a greenhouse experiment to test for heat responses and functional strategies across a range of temperatures that these varieties may experience under future climate scenarios in a subset of these varieties. In addition to their value as a model system for the proposed research, winegrapes are also of great economic and cultural importance globally, making the effects of climate change on grape quality and yield of major concern. The results of this work will advance our general understanding of how phenology is integrated into a complex of plant traits relevant to forecasting  plant and community responses to global change, as well as have important implications for predicting climatic responses of an economically important horticultural crop. This project will support the mentorship of one postdoctoral fellowship, foster international collaboration, develop outreach for early career scientists, etc. //maybe not include?//